[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway. Uh Tracy, I don't
want the podcast to be like an entirely
New York City focused podcast, but like
in our defense, not only do we live
here, but you know what happens in New
York City, it has it has problems and it
has challenges that are seen really all
around the world. So it's not terrible
to do a few episodes related to, you
know, what's happening around in our
neighborhood.
>> I don't think it's terrible at all. And
in fact, one specific area where New
York really does have national maybe
even global relevance is in the housing
arena, right? So, we know New York City
has a shortage of housing. People have
been trying to come up with ways to
improve that, build more supply for a
long time and also lower rents. And so
that that has, you know, implications
for a lot of other cities and places
that might also be capacity constrained.
>> Totally. I mean like New York is sort of
at egregious levels of housing on
affordability but every city around the
world I think every city that's booming
>> has some challenges of affordability and
uh building more at least in the west
but I sort of think basically everywhere
and so you know people always talk about
trying to solve it etc. Anyway, of
course, past OddLots's guest Zoran
Mumani has his uh proposals for how to
address housing affordability, including
a rent freeze on a significant chunk of
the housing stock um in the city. And
so, we sort of need to get a sense of
like what that means and how that you
know what what the implication is for
business, whether it could work, you
know. Well, the broader theme here, I
guess, is the role of the public sector
in the private market, right? Like if we
want to get really really conceptual
with this, that's basically what we're
talking about.
>> Yeah. And of course, Manny has a slew of
proposals and ideas, free buses, faster
buses, also has a public grocery store
trial, etc. But, you know, we did that
recent episode with uh Kathy Wild, the
head of the Partnership for New York,
which represents a lot of major
employers in the city. I'm sure they're
anxious about him uh for a number of
reasons, but uh she said within their
community, it's really the real estate
industry that is the most freaked out,
so to speak.
>> Yeah. And I'm really interested in this
because people talk about the real
estate industry as this sort of
monolith, but of course it isn't, right?
There's residential, there's commercial,
there's luxury, there's more affordable.
So I I want to dig into this a bit more
and understand exactly what the concerns
are and whether they're coming from
different parts of the real estate
network.
>> Yeah. And then there's, you know, even
within real estate, there's brokers and
then there's developers who are separate
from landlords, etc. Anyway, we do have
uh the perfect guest, someone we've had
on a few times every time New York City
real estate is in the news, a guy we
like to chat with. We are going to be
speaking with uh Ben Carlos Typen. He is
the founder of a firm called Quantier,
which analyzes real estate. He is also a
New York City landlord and broker.
Interesting idea.
>> Is that the most like hated demographic
in all of New York?
>> Yes.
>> Thanks for uh coming back on the show,
Ben.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Kathy Wild uh when we talked to her did
say that the real estate industry is the
uh of all of the sectors of the economy
the most an anxious. What uh what
specifically, you know, who's who's
really anxious or what what about
Mumani's sort of vision most sends
chills down the spine of uh landlords or
other players in the real estate
industry?
>> Well, I mean, I think the reaction to
Mumani is actually not that different
from the reaction to Bill Delasio uh 8
years ago when when he came in or excuse
me, 12 years ago. I think it's been
amplified by, you know, the political
environment we're in, Mam Nani's
political identity, his, you know, his
race, his his ethnicity, religion. But,
you know, what scares these people, I
think, the most. And when I say these
people, I mean the people that are, you
know, vocalizing their their fear, which
I think don't necessarily speak for for
every um portion of the real estate
industry. uh as as Tracy pointed out, I
think what most scares them is that
Mamdani's sort of premise of city
management uh does not revolve around
them. Um and you know this was a a major
issue during the Delasio administration
that the press covered a lot where you
know Delasio despite h you know
appointing you know some real estate
friendly u commissioners and generally
having a pretty good administration that
was pretty good for real estate he
didn't he wasn't in the habit of kissing
the ring um and sort of showing up to
their gallas and calling on them and and
stroking them in a way that you know in
contrast Eric Adams um the the current
mayor has been very uh you um good at
doing. Um so I think a lot of this is
sort of meta feelings about you know
their place in the city, their influence
in city hall and the you know depending
on the policy there could be you know
there's varying degrees of of
tenuousness to actual policy and market
implications.
>> So who is most scared? Give us some
nuance on on the vibes.
>> Sure. So I think the most scared groups
are rent stabilized landlords because
you know Mam Dani has pledged to freeze
rents on rent stabilized apartments and
then large developers the sort of you
know the biggest developers who not only
have business models that largely depend
on sort of being in a you know informal
cartel um and having you know the best
possible best relationships with the the
people that you know make policy in the
city and and the you know the most
powerful players but also, you know,
have a a greater sense of civic duty and
and their role in civic society. And I
think Mani's rhetoric and some of his
policies threaten their sort of sense of
uh their own place within the city.
>> You know, it's interesting, Tracy. I'm
thinking back, you know, we did that not
long after we interviewed Mandani. We
interviewed the Jersey City mayor who
didn't win his primary nomination for
governor. So, not everyone who comes on
odd lots uh automatically win. But one
of the things he said that was really
interesting is that by you know he said
he he talked about depoliticizing. Yeah.
And that you know essentially by making
it sort of more streamlined the process
to get approvals that there are these
developers who maybe their edge was that
they really knew how to play the game
within these boards within you know the
community. Suddenly like that is a
marginal edge that disappears in a
system that is much more
straightforward. And Mumani himself, if
I'm not mistaken, Ben, has also talked
about he does want more development.
He's talked about market rate
development and he's also talked about
just sort of making that process if the
developer meets certain requirements,
labor pay, etc., just much more
straightforward, which again would seem
to speak to your point that perhaps some
of the most threatened entities would be
those ones who are big and best
positioned to sort of play the politics
side of the game. Yeah, I I think
streamlining does not necessarily
benefit the most entrenched incumbents.
Um I think that they wouldn't
necessarily fare badly under Imamani
administration, but they um at least if
if one takes Mani's policy
pronouncements at face value would not
be in the driver's seat. you know, the
the Albanian guy in the Bronx who's
building a small multif family building,
he's going to be in a lot more position
to benefit from these streamlined
policies than, you know, the type of
people that are being quoted in the New
York Times.
>> By the way, Tracy, before I forget, you
know, Ben talked about the similarities
with Delasio. It's funny because I think
there was a quote, we're recording this
July 16th, I think I saw a quote
yesterday from Kathy Wild in the news
that was basically like, "Mumania is
like Bill Delasio except we like him."
like he's likable essentially, but you
know
>> that's pretty funny.
>> I mean, yeah, I get it. Um, okay. So,
part part of this discussion I I
understand why developers might be
concerned about like losing their
competitive advantage when it comes to
navigating city hall and all of that.
Are there any concerns beyond initial
approval for projects? Is there a
concern, for instance, about an emphasis
on public housing perhaps crowding out
private development?
>> I think there's a generalized concern
that the Mamani
administration and its vibes are going
to depress private investment, whether
that's in existing housing or building
new private housing. However, even under
that scenario, which I I don't really
agree with and think is kind of a
cynical view, there would be
beneficiaries of that scenario. So,
let's say that does happen. Rent
stabilized rents are are frozen and
private investment in new development
and new housing plummets.
>> They're going to upcharge the market
rate.
>> Exactly. Market rate rents would
increase considerably. So in under that
scenario, the market rate landlords
would do very well and the rent
stabilized landlords who are already not
doing well would continue to not do well
and the affordable developers who only
build uh housing with public subsidy
which you know Mam Donnie wants to spend
you know uh considerably more on on
subsidized housing would also benefit.
So you know it really speaks to the the
many different stakeholders within the
real estate industry who I who have
different and and sometimes conflicting
interests.
[Music]
If demand for residents in New York City
broadly is stable or continues to grow
as it has been in this scenario where in
theory developers just want to pull
back, the landlords who have exposure to
the market rate market rate units, you'd
think they would do very well.
>> Yeah. And and in fact, I have clients
who are market rate developers who are
out in the market fundraising right now
on with this argument to say that if we
should you should fund this project of
ours right now because we're going to be
the last buildings to to be developed
before mom Donnie comes in and freezes
everything and therefore we're going to
have the best product in the market and
be able to charge the highest price.
>> That's amazing. So the cost shift is
already happening basically.
>> Yeah. But like again we're people are
freaking out. I'm not sure that that is
necessarily uh grounded in reality, but
I think a lot of the the rhetoric both
public and private we've seen in in
light of Mam Dani's primary victory has
is is PR and spin. You know, in real
estate, everyone's always trying to find
an angle to say why their project is
best or why why their project should be
funded or why I'm not making this
decision and why, you know, why I look
smart because of that. So, you know,
we're still very much in in the spin
zone. Let's talk more about that because
you know I feel like one of those
cliches which probably has some truth is
that yeah people who freak out and like
let themselves get hysterical don't do
as well as business as people who adapt
to the new environment and sense the
opportunity. So you've described one set
of people who may be thinking
opportunistically right now which is the
people who might have the opportunity to
build something before rent freezes come
into place. they're going to have the
pricing power uh by this. What else are
the opportunities that people sense
about? Yeah. Okay. Maybe we don't like
the policies, but there's a money-making
opportunity under the Mani uh
administration. Who else is sort of
licking their chops, so to speak?
>> One other group that's licking their
chops is the developers that specialize
in building affordable housing, which
are both for-profit and and nonprofit
developers. And you know they have done
pretty well or they did very well under
the administration. They've done well
during the Adams administration. They
consistently do well because you know
the Mdani wants to build more government
subsidized housing than any uh previous
mayor. But it's not like the the
developers and the labor for building
that housing is just going to
materialize out of the government.
You're going to be using private sector
players to do this. M so these groups or
the these players are taking a a
different approach than some other you
know pure market rate developers in the
real estate industry and trying to craft
sort of a separate piece with the
Bombani administration to say like hey
you know we we want to help you meet
your goals we know you want to spend a
lot of money this is good for you know
for for both of us and I think another
group ironically and they're not so much
licking their chops because I think
they're they're very scared is the
rentstabilized building owners because
you know as as we've discussed on our
one of our previous podcasts you know
this is a distress sector and it's sort
of been heading for a reckoning and I
think Mdani's policies are going to lead
to an acceleration of that trend so that
something gives here and I think it
could give in a in a sort of cynical way
you know at at the Supreme Court or or
it could give in a you know more
optimistic way by by sort of Mamani
being uh something like Nixon to China
and going to Albany and crafting some
sort of new regime for these buildings
that you know does not burden tenants
but also um stabilizes them and make
sure that they don't collapse which is
not really in the interest of anyone.
Yeah, this is good context because the
long-suffering rentstabilized uh
building owners have been trying to
loosen regulation for a long time and I
think they even sued um on a
constitutional basis and clearly the
goal is to try to get this to the
Supreme Court,
>> but in that context, you mentioned labor
really quickly and I want to go back to
that because one of the proposals that
Mumani has is using unionized labor to
build all this affordable housing and
I'm curious how feasible that is, what
the availability is and how that
actually feeds into costs.
>> Sure. So when talking about this issue,
I think it's important to keep in mind
that this is not a Mum Donnie issue. The
construction unions all were backing
Cuomo. This is really a New York issue
at large. We'll see how how Mum Donnie,
you know, they the unlike most of the
other powerful unions, the construction
unions still have not abandoned Cuomo.
They have not um endorsed mom donn yet.
>> That said, there's
obviously
organized labor's job is to advocate for
the most wages and and best benefits for
their members. They also need to make
sure that their members keep working. So
right now we're in a situation with this
tax program that was negotiated uh in
two uh legislative sessions ago where in
for particularly large projects the uh
labor requirements are are viewed as as
too ownorous and and no one is building
buildings that qualify under this this
this wage standard. So there needs to be
some sort of peace that is brokered
here. And I think this could be an
opportunity, you know, with all the
credibility that Mdani has built on the
left to craft a peace between labor and
and developers to make it so that we can
build housing with unionized labor, but
um it doesn't break the bank.
>> It's interesting. I you point out this
is something I've been thinking about
but you point out that for example most
of the unions uh supported Cuomo some of
them such as the construction union
which I hadn't realized uh still backing
Cuomo Cuomo also won the endorsement I
think though they've switched of the
hotel workers uh union which I also want
to talk about but it's interesting to me
because when people think about a
leftwing mayor and how it can go wrong
they reach for uh the example of Brandon
Johnson in Chicago Brandon Johnson came
out of the union machine. I mean, he was
part of the teachers union in Chicago.
Manny, for all his, I'm sure,
ideological affinity for organized
labor. He doesn't come out of that
machine the same way Brandon Johnson,
let alone to some extent Cuomo did. So,
it does feel like there is a potential
for some sort of, you know, shifting of
the plate, so to speak.
>> Yeah. I mean, who knows what's going to
happen, but I think the
>> it's hard to argue that our that
coalition politics and and politics
generally in New York City have not been
scrambled by this event.
>> And I I think it it remains to be seen
how how all that shakes out. Um, and
whether these groups that, you know,
have been operating in relative concert,
you know, perhaps at the expense of of
other constituencies remain allied or
whether new alliances were formed. um to
solve some of the city's problems.
>> How much of this just boils down to uh
people wealthier people not liking
higher taxes? Because I imagine, you
know, if they're trying to get a message
out there saying that they don't like
taxes probably doesn't resonate with a
lot of New Yorkers, but saying that
because of higher taxes or because of
all these other policies, there's going
to be less development of property, less
affordable housing. Is that just them
trying to spin it that way? I personally
I think so and you know our media
environment is structured as such that
there's not really much downside in
doing that. So you know you hear about
remember a couple years ago there was a
lot of stories about David Ter that from
Appaloosa Capital Management moving to
Florida to to duck a income tax increase
in New Jersey. We know there's a media
frenzy about this but no one covered
that he moved back. And
>> I'm always saying this no one's going to
stay in Florida. Give me a break. And I
you know I think you know the the data
or and analysis that has been done is
this shows that like millionaire tax
flight actually is largely a myth and
occurs at a much lower rate than it does
for for middle and lower income people
and you know there's all sorts of groups
that sort of take advantage of this
dynamic. So, for instance, a luxury real
estate broker um will be, you know, p
going to the press and say, you know,
I'm getting my phone is ringing off the
hook on people that want to sell their
apartments here or move to Palm Beach.
You know, does that get them the
attention of more people who might be
thinking that way? Yeah. But does it
reflect market reality or or is anyone,
you know, testing to see if that they've
been proven wrong? No. And I think, you
know, we're this isn't just a New York
City phenomenon. We're seeing a lot of
dissonance between people's sort of
ideological and policy priors and actual
economic analysis. And I and I think a
really good example is a mayor who
raised taxes including on upper earners
several times in New York City, friend
of the pod, Michael Bloomberg. And a lot
of these same people who are complaining
um about Zoron think that Bloomberg was
their model mayor and and and really
want to go back to the Bloomberg
economy. So, you know, people are sort
of flailing about looking for any
possible way to spin, you know, their
own preferences.
>> Friend of the pot is a
>> How are you going to
>> Well, I was going to do the standard
disclaimer. It has become standard, but
uh Michael Bloomberg is of course the
owner of Bloomberg LP, which runs
Bloomberg Media and Bloomberg News. So,
there we go. That's the disclaimer.
>> I like describing him as friend of the
pod.
>> Um, but this is a really important
point. Like no one's got to go to
Florida. Like you if you go to Florida,
you can't be an instudio guest on the
OddLaws podcast and do all the wonderful
things that being in New York City
affords you. It really is. I mean, I
don't know actually the the stats on who
leaves New York City, but it's not the
rich. I mean, it's like people who just
find the city unaffordable. Right.
>> Right. And um I would encourage everyone
to to Google um Crystal Ball Young,
who's a uh professor uh at Cornell,
who's done a lot of work on this uh very
issue. And the something you you know
Kathy Wild mentioned uh in in your
interview and and something you hear
across business leaders generally and
and particularly in commercial real
estate rather than than multif family is
the importance of our workforce. And if
if people who the the talent that fuels
New York City cannot afford to live
here, that is bad for New York City's
economy. Yeah. And
>> would you know lowering the cost of
housing uh be bad for some landlords?
Yes. But it would would it be good for a
lot of other sectors of the city
including you know the office real
estate sector?
>> Yes. Similarly with child care would I
don't know who anyone who's really
opposed to child care like I think
that's a problem for everyone and it
would uh help employees and employers
but also help real estate owners because
if you remember during the Bas
administration they rolled out universal
prek. It's not like there's all this
empty space in public buildings near
people's houses that you're going to
put, you know, childcare facilities.
This these are going to be rented in
private buildings and result in a huge
amount of leasing uh velocity that will
often occur in space that is otherwise
hard to lease.
[Music]
When we spoke to Kathy, she did bring up
crime. And you know, initially, maybe
you don't make a direct connection
between economic policy and crime, but
the argument is if there's lots of crime
going on in the city, people are going
to want to move away to that New York
City flight exodus point. How are
landlords or the real estate industry
thinking about that particular aspect?
Is it important to them? because that
would be maybe a reason to go for
someone like an Eric Adams,
>> right? I I think it's very uh important
to the real estate industry and and you
know a lot of people are
uh scarred by the experience of the
1970s and 80s uh in New York even if the
contributing factors for New York's
issues back then are are u myriad and
complicated. You know, everyone agrees
that, you know, having a a crimeridden
city is is not in the interests of
building owners and and property values
and really the city at large given how
much of our budget is based on property
taxes. And, you know, Mi has said that
he's, you know, considering keeping on
Jessica Tish, the current police
commissioner, that and that he's not
going to reduce NYPD headcount. I think
the real estate industry is very
skeptical of this, but you know, the
cooler heads within it are are sort of
keeping in mind that New York City is
ultimately a creature of the state and
we have a very moderate governor. we
have a more moderate than um Mandani uh
legislature and the legacy or you know
of the New York state constitution but
also the fiscal crisis in the 1970s
provides Albany with a lot of ways to
make sure that the city does not go off
the deep end on on issues like this.
>> Can we talk about um the last four
years? I mean, it's a weird four years
because, you know, the you're starting
the baseline in 2021 sort of during the
worst of the post-pandemic chaos.
There's been a decent amount of
building, I think. However, it's a
really expensive city. There's a reason
the affordability line was, I think, so
effective in this uh recent mayoral
primary. Like, oh, you know, do you have
a scorecard for how uh Mayor Adams did
on housing?
H
I'd give him a
C.
>> Okay. I I think uh C++ maybe B minus.
>> All right. Say more.
>> I think the the land use policy
>> my children go to a progre one of my
children goes to a very progressive
school. They don't have grades. They
just have this kind of stuff. So you can
uh you can give the the sort of like a
qualitative assessment
>> feedback. Sure. I I think the the land
use policy was generally pretty good.
you know, the city of Yes, which which
you may have heard of, which is, you
know, the biggest change to the zoning
code in in uh probably 70 years. The
income support policy, so which, you
know, a lot of our our housing woes are,
you know, obviously the rents are are
too damn high and prices are too damn
high, but also wages are too damn low.
Um, and you know, we need to make sure
that people can afford to pay uh rents.
We need to make sure that people can
afford to pay the rent that it costs to
finance a new new building. And the
Adams administration has fought sort of
the expansion of of voucher funding.
Where I think it's fallen short on
housing is dealing with sort of
structural issues with our housing
market, particularly the property tax
system. And they are not the first
administration to fall short on this
issue. But I think it speaks to how much
Adams's non-housing policies and sort of
extracurricular activities have impacted
his ability to address structural issues
like property taxes.
>> Can you just explain? Yeah.
>> So New York City's property taxes
property tax system has two sort of
major distributional issues. One is that
a neighborhood like Park Slope is way
undertaxed relative to a poorer
neighborhood like Canari.
the same two properties paying the same
amount of property taxes in those
neighborhoods. The property in Crown
Heights will be worth five times more
and is paying the same amount of
property taxes as the property in Karsi.
The other distributional issue is multif
family versus single family uh or one to
three family and uh multif family and
commercial are taxed way more than their
relative value contribution to the
city's total property tax role. Uh, and
this is a a long-standing issue. There's
been, you know, report after report and
commission saying, you know, here's what
we should do. And no one has sort of
figured out how to go to Albany to craft
a new regime that, you know, addresses
these issues, which, you know, in
addition to producing a lot of, you
know, discriminatory impacts are really
hampering our housing production and on
existing housing operating costs. And I
I think this is a particularly ripe time
when it to address this issue because of
the crisis with a certain segment of the
rent stabilized buildings because these
buildings are way overt taxed. So one
could see you know in in a best case
scenario the Mdani administration is you
know it's instituted its rent rent
freeze. You know buildings are starting
to have trouble. The Mdani
administration doesn't want to see these
buildings. You know they don't want
collapsing buildings. That's not good
for tenants. It's not good for their
their political optics. Uh it's not good
for city the city's, you know, uh image.
So Albany says, "All right, we're going
to craft, you know, create a new class
for these rent stabilized buildings, and
it's going to lower their taxes, and
that's going to alleviate, you know, the
burden on these owners from keeping
their rents very low."
>> How much of this sort of existential
concern being expressed by the real
estate industry goes away if interest
rates come down significantly? I think a
lot of it but it's still ve it would
still be very much there. I think it
would become acute become less acute but
would persist because uh a lot of this
is about these are long-standing
conflicts between the real estate
industry and um you know between
landlords and tenants between you know
what political faction runs New York and
those cleavages would would remain even
if interest rates are lower. I think
interest rates would bail some people
out and increase transaction volume and
delay the the time at which someone uh
that's in trouble might go bankrupt, but
the structural issues would remain.
>> Can you real quickly just explain the
roots of the tax disparity or why say a
unit in Brooklyn Heights is relatively
underted? Bomb Dani got into a little
bit of trouble because I think somewhere
on his website at one point it said
something about historically white
neighborhoods and people are like, "Oh,
he wants to tax white people more." It
happens to be true, however, that a lot
of the neighborhoods that benefit from
this structure do happen to be more
white. But what is the origin of why
certain neighborhoods are undertaxed
given their sort of like, you know,
their economic base?
>> Sure. So I this the current property tax
regime was crafted in the early 1980s as
a result of a court case and it
instituted caps on the amount that
assessments can increase.
>> Okay.
>> Uh and
>> these places have seen their assessment
surge
>> as a result. Yeah. So like Canary in
was maybe a comparable income, you know,
middle income, lower middle income area
that as it is now, whereas Park Slope
was a much less well-off area than it is
now. And the property values in places
like Park Slope and Williamsburg and and
to some degree a place like Brook
Brooklyn Heights have skyrocketed, but
the the tax burden on those properties
have not gone up commensurately.
>> With your real estate hat on, who's
going to win?
>> Mom Nani. I I think it's I think these
these efforts to draft another candidate
or or um you know reboot the the Cuomo
campaign are totally doomed and the real
estate industry I think is is really
internally is is very split over what to
do and you know some are going to back
Mayor Adams, some are going to back
Cuomo, some are trying to craft a piece
with Mandani and some of them are just
going to stay out.
>> Ben Tyen, thank you so much for coming
back on OddLotss. always love uh getting
your your levelheaded perspective on
what's happening in our city.
>> Thank you so much, Ben.
>> My pleasure.
[Music]
I always really like talking to Ben. I
had not realized the sort of I mean
there was a lot there that was
interesting that sort of that source of
the disparity in property taxes. It
makes a lot of sense that if you just
can't raise property taxes at a certain
clip, how you know relatively undertaxed
any sort of booming neighborhood such as
Williamsburg will inevitably end up
being. Yeah, that seems like a problem
given that like a big chunk of the
recent story of New York City is
gentrification and all these
neighborhoods where like
>> a warehouse that used to cost I don't
know a h 100,000 in the 80s now costs
like 10 million or whatever. Um, the
other thing I thought was really
interesting, it sort of hammered home
that point that we discussed previously,
but the idea of the competitive
advantage for large landlords basically
being they can network in city hall,
they can presumably do the paperwork and
all of that stuff. And so if an
administration comes in that jeopardizes
that particular advantage, then they're
not going to like it,
>> right? like maybe the rules for
development will be more stringent, but
if they're just sort of uniform where
it's like okay, and I don't know how it
could ever be in real estate, but let's
just say, you know, in the sort of
abstract and you check these four boxes
and you are approved to build a new
development, then intuitively
um yeah, that would sort of undermine
the relative advantage enjoyed by a big
powerful entity that sort of knows the
system, so to speak. On the other hand,
of course, maybe there are smaller
property developers who really like the
idea of a streamlined process, doing
away with things like the parking
requirement and stuff like that, dual
staircases versus single. I don't know.
I I and I do think like you can't you
know if you're anxious about what uh the
Mumani administration is going to bring
you you can't really sim simultaneously
argue that it's going to stifle
development and rents right if
development gets stifled then the market
rents go up
>> and if uh you know and so there will be
this balancing effect you know obviously
there are the landlords who are deeply
exposed to the rent stabilized market
we've talked about them before, but
they're hurting right now as it is. I
also do think at some point maybe we
should talk about the prospect of a
Supreme Court case in the next couple of
years that eliminates rent stabilization
or rent regulation period poss. You
know, you mentioned the sort of cynical
possibility of Mumani being an
accelerant that gets that case in front
of the Supreme Court at some point could
have big implications.
>> This entire conversation has reminded me
that I need to uh call my super and get
something fixed in my apartment. So,
this was useful. This is what I miss
about being a renter is I don't have uh
someone that I can call as easily. There
are some advantages. There are some
advantages to being a renter, you know.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> Actually, I do have a super. I just have
to pay him now for it where it used to
be all these various uh repairs and
stuff. The burden fell on my landlord
before. Now the uh the burden
>> that's not too bad cuz like the the big
problem with supers I feel is just
availability or the big problem with
getting something fixed is finding
someone and getting them in.
>> Anyway, every time something breaks I
have to pay for it now. They don't tell
you that when you become a owner.
>> Pretty sure they do.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest Ben
Carlos Typen. He's at Bendito. Follow
our producers, Carmen Rodriguez, at
Carmen Arman, Dashel Bennett atbot, and
Kaleb Brooks at Kalebrooks. For more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlotss
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes, and you can chat about
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk about New York City housing
policy, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]